GDGHACKS
2026
May 9th - 10th 2026
In-Person @ Rozanski Hall,
University of Guelph
Supported byHacker Package
Table of Content
Welcome
Rules of Hacking
Code of Conduct
Campus Map
Submission Instructions
Hackathon Prep
Our Sponsors
Welcome TO GDGHacks 2026!
The Google Developer Groups at Guelph is launching a
brand-new 24-hour hackathon! We are beyond excited to
welcome you to the University of Guelph for an adventure
day where code meets creativity. Our GDG club began this
year as a place for aspiring developers, designers, and tech
enthusiasts, and we have grown phenomenally into a
community of over 550 members. Our club thrives on the
passion and ambition of students like you, who are eager to
push the boundaries of what's possible with technology.
We're putting a spotlight on fun, learning, and making
unforgettable memories at GDGHACKS. Whether you're a
novice or a seasoned programmer, our hackathon is the
perfect arena to unleash your programming potential and
network with peers and industry leaders. Our schedule is
packed with engaging workshops, exciting activities, and
plenty of opportunities to meet new people and forge
lasting connections.
Get ready to dive into a weekend of coding, collaboration,
and celebration.
Ready, set, hack!
Hackathon Schedule (24 Hours)
Day 1 (Saturday - May 9th)
**Late Night Snacks are Available From 10 PM - 8 AM 6:00 PM – 7:00 PM – Hacker Check-In
7:00 PM – 7:30 PM – Opening Ceremony
7:30 PM – Hacking Begins
8:00 PM – 8:45 PM – Dinner/Networking Bingo
9:00 PM – 9:45 PM – Gemini Workshop
10:00 PM - 10:45 PM - Cloud Computing
10:45 PM - 12:00 AM - Hacking Continues
Late Night:
12:00 AM – 4:00 AM – Overnight Hacking
Day 2 (Sunday - May 10th)
4:00 AM – 9:00 AM – Early Morning Hacking
8:00 AM – 9:00 AM – Breakfast
9:00 AM – 10:00 AM – 3D Modeling/blender workshop 
10:30 AM – 12:30 PM – Super Smash Bros Video Game comp
12:00 AM – 1:00 PM – Lunch
1:30 PM - 3:30 - Hacking Continues
3:30 PM - Final Submission
4:00 PM – 5:30 PM – Judging
5:30 PM – 6:00 PM – Closing Ceremony & Awards
Opening/Closing Ceremony Judging Food Workshop/Activity Hacking
Rules of Hacking
Team Rules:
All team members must be accepted and registered
as participants for GDDHacks 2026.
Teams may have a maximum of 4 members who
must all be able to attend the event in person.
You cannot be a part of more than one team.
A team can only submit a total of one project
Project Eligibility:
All code for your project must be written between
6:00 PM EST on Saturday, May 9, 2025, and 6:00 PM
EST on Sunday, May 10, 2025.
To be eligible to demo your project, teams must
submit their projects before  4:00 pm EST on Sunday,
May 10, 2026.
You are allowed to use tools like LLMs (e.g., ChatGPT,
Cursor, or similar AI assistants) during the event.
**It is permitted to prepare any structural
components for projects requiring hardware in
advance.
**Note: If you are bringing your own hardware, you must inform the organizers during team registration.
Rules of Hacking - Cont.
Project Eligibility:
It is permitted to gather a data set that will be used
as training data for projects utilizing AI in advance.
Training an AI model on data in advance is not
permitted.
Any teams that commit plagiarism will be
disqualified.
You may use any publicly available
libraries/packages/design assets.

Code of Conduct
Respect & Inclusion
Treat all participants, mentors, judges, and organizers with
respect. Harassment, discrimination, or inappropriate behavior
of any kind will not be tolerated.
Hardware Use
If you are bringing your own hardware, you must inform the
organizers during team registration. All equipment must
comply with the event’s safety guidelines.
Fair Play
Plagiarism or submitting work that is not your own is strictly
prohibited. Teams must ensure all contributions are properly
attributed when applicable.
Safety
All participants must follow venue rules and safety instructions
at all times. Unsafe or disruptive behavior may result in
disqualification.
Organizer Authority
Organizers reserve the right to remove any participant or team
that violates these rules or disrupts the event.
Campus Map
The hackathon will take place in Rozanski Hall at the University of Guelph.
https://classfind.com/guelph
Register for the hackathon on Devpost
Ensure your Devpost team information is accurate
Click the "Start project" button to begin submission
Add a title and a short description of your project
Click the "Import from portfolio" button to import your project
Agree to terms and conditions and the click the "Submit
project" button
For more information please visit Organizers reserve the right to
remove any participant or team that violates these rules or
disrupts the event.
Submission Instructions
Here’s a small list of things we recommend 
each Hacker should bring:
     Laptop + Charger
    Toothbrush + Toothpaste
    Cell Phone + Charger
    Photo ID [MANDATORY]
    An extra hoodie
    Headphones, notepad, and pens
    Reusable water bottle
    Allergy medicine! (or any other medicine you need!)
We will be providing all meals and snacks throughout
the event. However, participants are welcome to bring
their own snacks while they work.
Note: If you have any dietary restrictions (e.g., gluten-
free, vegan, etc.), please email gdgguelph@gmail.com
in advance.Hackathon Prep

Our Sponsors

