CP-468 Artificial intelligence Course Syllabus Page 1 of 6 I acknowledge that in Kitchener, Waterloo, Cambridge, and Brantford, we are on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishnawbe, and Haudenosaunee peoples.
Course Syllabus Faculty of Science Department of Computer Science & Physics CP 468 – B Artificial Intelligence Winter 2026 Instructor & Course Information Instructor: Dr.
Dariush Ebrahimi Course Location: Bricker BA102 in-person Email: Meeting Time: Mon & Wed 1:00 - 2:20 PM Office Location: N2076H Prerequisites: CP213 Intr.
to Object-Oriented Prog.
Office Hours: Mon & Wed 3:00 - 4:00 PM, in person, or online by appointment Teaching Assistant: Satvika Pullisani - University Course Calendar Description Examination of current concepts and techniques in artificial intelligence and machine learning.
Topics include knowledge representation, automated reasoning, heuristic search, machine learning, and knowledge-based systems.
Extensive use of case studies and current applications.
Course Overview Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a rapidly growing field that involves the development of intelligent machines that can perform tasks that typically require human intelligence.
This course introduces AI’s fundamental concepts and techniques, including problem-solving, planning, learning, uncertainty, and reasoning.
Students will learn how to design and implement AI systems using these techniques and gain hands-on experience applying them to solve complex problems, as well as how to evaluate the performance of these systems.
By the end of the course, students will gain a solid understanding of the concepts and techniques of AI and how this multifaceted technology is rapidly advancing and shaping the future of industries, economies, and humanity.
They will be able to apply their knowledge to real-world problems and make informed decisions about the use of AI in various domains.
Course Objectives and Learning Outcomes Upon completion of this course, students will be able to: • Understand the foundations and core concepts of AI.
• Know about the structure of intelligent agents and environments.
• Solve problems by searching using informed and uninformed search strategies.
• Learn adversarial search and decisions in games.
• Solve problems using game theory and Nash equilibrium.
• Define constraint satisfaction problems.
• Learn how to handle and deal with uncertain knowledge.
• Apply AI techniques, such as machine learning, reinforcement learning, and deep learning, to real-world problems.
• Develop and evaluate AI models using popular programming languages and tools.
CP-468 Artificial intelligence Course Syllabus Page 2 of 6 I acknowledge that in Kitchener, Waterloo, Cambridge, and Brantford, we are on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishnawbe, and Haudenosaunee peoples.
Course Tools and Learning Materials Provided Materials in Class and/or WLU MyLearningSpace: Course slides, videos, and class notes Suggested Readings Textbook (optional, and any edition can be used): 1.
Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, 4th Edition by Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig • Publisher: Pearson • Date Published: April 28, 2020, Hardcover: 1136 pages • ISBN-10: 0134610997, ISBN-13: 978-0134610993 • Source Link: • Cost & Direct Purchase link: $57.99 - $87.99, Click here to purchase 2.
Reinforcement Learning: An Introduction, 2nd Edition by Richard S.
Sutton and Andrew G.
Barto, • Publisher: Bradford Books • Date Published: November 13, 2018, Hardcover: 552 pages • ISBN-10: 0262039249, ISBN-13 : 978-0262039246 • Source Link: • Cost & Direct Purchase link: $111.99 - $143, Click here to purchase Student Evaluation and Grading Scheme Task Weighting Due Date Quiz 1 10% Jan.
28, 2026 – Wednesday @ 1:00 PM Assignment 1 10% Feb.
15, 2026 – Sunday @ 11:30 PM Quiz 2 10% Feb.
23, 2026 – Monday @ 1:00 PM Quiz 3 10% Mar.
11, 2026 – Wednesday @ 1:00 PM Assignment 2 10% Mar.
22, 2026 – Sunday @ 11:30 PM Exam 30% Mar.
25, 2026 – Wednesday @ 1:00 PM Project Presentation 5% Mar.
30 & Apr.
01, 2026 Project Report 15% Apr.
12, 2026 – Sunday @ 11:30 PM Total 100% Weekly Schedule(S) (Tentative and subject to changes) Week Date Topic Reminder Week 1 05 & 07 Jan.
2026 Introduction, Intelligent Agents Week 2 12 & 14 Jan.
2026 Problem-Solving by Search, Heuristic Search Adversarial Search and Games Week 3 19 & 21 Jan.
2026 Optimization & Constraint Satisfaction Problems Week 4 26 & 28 Jan.
2026 Machine Learning Quiz 1 Jan 28 Week 5 02 & 04 Feb.
2026 Introduction to Reinforcement Learning Week 6 09 & 11 Feb.
2026 Markov Decision Process, and Q-Learning Ass.
1 due Feb15 Week 7 23 & 25 Feb.
2026 Neural Networks Quiz 2 Feb 23 Week 8 02 & 04 Mar.
2026 Deep Learning Week 9 09 & 11 Mar.
2026 Uncertain Knowledge & Reasoning Quiz 3 Mar 11 Week 10 16 & 18 Mar.
2026 Game Theory & Nash Equilibrium Ass.
2 due Mar22 Week 11 23 & 25 Mar.
2026 Mixed Strategy Algorithm & Calculating Payoffs Exam Mar 25 Week 12 30 & 01 Apr.
2026 Project Presentation Project due Apr 12 CP-468 Artificial intelligence Course Syllabus Page 3 of 6 I acknowledge that in Kitchener, Waterloo, Cambridge, and Brantford, we are on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishnawbe, and Haudenosaunee peoples.
Assignments & Term Project General information • There are in total two assignments and one term project, each to be completed through group work.
• Students must form groups of 4 to 5 members to collaborate on the assignments and the term project.
• The designated group leader must email the TA the first and last names, student IDs, and email addresses of all group members.
Groups will receive a GroupID on a first-come, first-served basis.
• All members of a group will receive the same grade.
It is not expected that all team members contribute equally to all components.
However, every team member should make integral contributions to the group work.
In case a member does not contribute, and this is confirmed by the leader and the rest of the group, that student will receive a grade of zero.
• Only the group leader must submit the assignments and term project on MyLS.
Other members must ensure that the leader submits all work on time.
• Details and further instructions for the assignments and the term project will be posted on MyLS in the Dropbox folder at least two weeks before their due dates.
• Late submissions will incur a 20% penalty and will not be accepted after five days past the due date.
• Assignment submissions must consist of a single .pdf file unless coding files are required (refer to the assignment instructions on MyLS).
• For the term project, submit one .zib file containing: o The project report as a .pdf file, and o All required coding files and numerical results in Excel sheets.
• Use the following naming conventions for your files (note: use dashes, not underscores): o CP468-A1-GroupID.pdf (for assignment 1) o CP468-A2-GroupID.pdf (for assignment 2) o CP468-TP-GroupID.zip (for the term project) • The .pdf file must include a cover page, page numbers, and a header on each page with your GroupID, course code, submission date, and the assignment or project title.
• Finally, students must present their term projects during the last week of classes.
Term Project Write-up Instructions Your team must submit a project report with a maximum length of eight pages using the IEEE journal template (single-spaced, double column).
We highly recommend using LaTeX for preparing the report.
You must adhere to the following structure and minimum requirements: 1.
Title: Choose a title that fits your project.
2.
Author Information: List all project group members with their affiliation(s) and email address(es).
3.
Keywords: Provide important keywords related to your project 4.
Abstract (maximum 250 words): Summarize the project task and highlight the most important findings 5.
Introduction: Introduce the research area and its real-world significance, including relevant applications.
Briefly describe the problem being addressed and solved.
Conclude with a summary of the project task and key findings (similar to the abstract but more detailed).
CP-468 Artificial intelligence Course Syllabus Page 4 of 6 I acknowledge that in Kitchener, Waterloo, Cambridge, and Brantford, we are on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishnawbe, and Haudenosaunee peoples.
6.
Related Work (Literature Review): Present a structured literature review and clearly distinguish your work from existing studies.
Provide a brief description of each referenced paper, including the exact problem tackled, challenges, limitations, and proposed solution(s).
7.
System Model and Problem Description: Illustrate your system model using well-constructed figure(s).
Describe the problem in detail, including examples if necessary.
8.
Proposed Approach: Describe the model(s) you implemented and include citations where appropriate.
If using or extending previously published models, you must properly cite and acknowledge the original work.
Discuss algorithm selection, design, and implementation.
9.
Performance Evaluation (Numerical Results): Present simulation results and evaluate the performance of your method(s) by varying different metrics.
Include high-quality figures (minimum 300 dpi).
10.
Discussion and Conclusion: Summarize the main insights, implications, and takeaways from your project.
11.
References: Include only the references that are cited within the main text.
Project Evaluation (a total of 20 points) 1.
Completeness (5 points) • Did you submit all the materials?
• Did you implement the required model and algorithm/algorithms?
• Did you run all the required experiments?
2.
Correctness (5 points) • Are your models implemented and applied correctly?
• Do your proposed features improve performance, or do you adequately demonstrate that it was not possible to improve performance?
• Do you observe the correct trends in the experiments?
3.
Writing quality (5 points) • Is your report clear and free of grammatical errors and typos?
• Did you follow the guidelines for the project write-up & paper structure?
• Did you effectively present numerical results (e.g., via tables or figures)?
4.
Presentation (5 points) • Are your presentation slides clear and interesting to the audience?
• Have you addressed the project very well with clarity and coherence?
• How well did you engage with the audience?
Course Notes 1.
Course Syllabus: The course syllabus is not fixed and is subject to change based on the class flow.
2.
Posting of Materials: The class materials, like PowerPoint presentations and videos, will be posted online on WLU MyLS before or after each class or two.
3.
Assignments Posting Dates: Assignments will be posted on MyLS one or two weeks before the due dates and announced via email to registered students.
4.
Late Assignment: Late assignment submissions will be penalized 20% and will not be accepted after five days from the due date.
5.
Tests and Assignments Dates: The timing and dates of all tests, quizzes, and assignments, along with their due dates, are outlined in the Grading Scheme section.
Students are expected to adhere to these dates and should not miss any deadlines due to personal schedules or travel plans.
6.
Missing Test or Quiz: Students should not schedule or plan other commitments during class time.
It is the student’s responsibility to attend all exams and quizzes held during class sessions.
Missing an assessment may result in a grade of zero for that test or quiz.
7.
Announcements: Students are required to regularly check this course outline for any changes and check their university email for announcements from the course instructor.
CP-468 Artificial intelligence Course Syllabus Page 5 of 6 I acknowledge that in Kitchener, Waterloo, Cambridge, and Brantford, we are on the traditional territory of the Neutral, Anishnawbe, and Haudenosaunee peoples.
8.
Examination Mode: Quizzes and examinations will be conducted during class time, either on paper or online through the university portal (MyLS) using a lockdown browser.
Attendance will be recorded.
9.
Make-Up Test: There will be no make-up test or quiz.
10.
Passing the Course: To pass the course, students should attain a minimum of 50% in the total of all components mentioned in the Grading Scheme Section.
11.
Participation in Class: It is encouraged to participate in class discussions, and there will be chances to get bonus points by answering questions raised in class.
12.
Attendance: The university’s attendance policy is followed.
University and Course Policies Approved by the Senate 1.
Academic Calendars: Students are encouraged to review the Academic Calendar for information regarding all important dates, deadlines, and services available on campus.

[...]
Accessibility: Students requiring accommodation are advised to contact Laurier’s Accessible Learning Centre for information regarding its services and resources.

[...]
This culture values trustworthiness (e.g., honesty, integrity, reliability), fairness, caring, respect, responsibility, and citizenship.
Together, we have a shared responsibility to uphold this culture in our academic and non-academic behavior.